---
title: 'Some retrospective thoughts on my past education experience: what I wish I had done as an undergraduate'
date: 2022-11-11
permalink: /posts/2022/11/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - random thoughts

---

As an engineering student I have often times become frsutrated in the past few years at not being able to understand my lectures. The professor would write down an equation or theorem on the blackborad, and after being carefully explained to us, it still remains unclear in my brain. Sometimes I would feel so exhausted at following up the instructor's train of thought during a lecture and still ended up confounded about what was going on. I would pretend I understood everything only to realize later on that I didn't understand anything as soon as I opened up the homework assignment.
Through my observation I notice that many students, including myself, were not fully prepared to change the way they learn things when they came to college. In high school, many of us failed to develop a highly-independent habit of self-learning because we simply relied on the teachers to deliver the "meat" to our mouth. Sometimes the teachers would give us reading assignments so that we could become somewhat familair with what would be discussed in the upcoming lectures, but you know... sometimes I'd become lazy and skip those reading assignments. However, 'catastrophically', not all of us are good at rapidly accepting new concepts within a very short period of time. Let's say you have a 50-minute physics lecture in the morning and the teacher discusses Maxwell's equation, but you did not do the reading assignment beforehand and felt lost during the entire lecture. You wanted to ask a question during lecture but you might be so lost that you didn't know what to ask about. Then, you found yourself scratching your head, investing in way more time going through the reading assignment in the evening because you got stuck on the homework. This passive style of learning is often times carried over to college, and I was no exception to this.
I gradually came to realize the importance of self-learning. However, I beleive my efficiency of learning new things was at a mediocre level throughout my undergraduate career. I was mentally trapped in a cycle of lagging behind understanding the lecture content, and consequently I had to invest a lot more time attempting to understand them after lectures. This is definitely not a healthy learning cycle. Sometimes I would attempt to 'blame' the un-understandable lecture content on the instructors, but even in the most difficult class on campus there are students who perfectly understand everything. There is nobody to blame on!
The one regret I had for my undergraduate career was that I wish I had focused on enhancing my ability to understand new concepts on my own rather than painfully lingering on some things I hoped to understand through repetitive rote memorization. In an ideal setting, I believe students should first attempt to learn everything according to the syllabus by themselves, and the professors would endeavor his/her precious lecture time to take questions from students and discuss examples problems related to the specific content. I hope that one day, if I become a professor, I would endeavor to take this thought into action! 
